First draft for a persona based documentation. (#1731)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/getting-started/_index.md

---
title: Getting Started
description: Get started with OpenTelemetry based on your role.
spelling: cSpell:ignore otel
weight: 1
---

Before you deep dive into your role-specific _Getting Started_, you can try out

> our official [OpenTelemetry Demo][] to **see** how observability with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the official [OpenTelemetry Demo][] to **see** how observability with
```

OpenTelemetry looks like.

> If none of the roles below is applicable to you, [let us know][]!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If none of the roles below are applicable to you, [let us know][]!
```

---
title: Getting Started
description: >-

>   Depending on your role, you might be looking for a different way to get  started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Depending on your role, you might be looking for a different way to get started
```

> description: >-
>   Depending on your role, you might be looking for a different way to get started
>   with OpenTelemetry. Find your way on how to get started with OpenTelemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Get started with OpenTelemetry based on your role.
```

spelling: cSpell:ignore otel
weight: 1
---

> Before you deep dive into your role specific _Getting Started_, you can try out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you deep dive into your role-specific _Getting Started_, you can try out
```

---
title: Getting Started
description: >-
  Depending on your role, you might be looking for a different way to get 
  started with OpenTelemetry. Find your way on how to get started with
  OpenTelemetry.
spelling: cSpell:ignore otel
aliases: [/about, /docs/concepts/overview, /otel]
weight: 1
---

Before you deep dive into your role specific _Getting Started_, you can try out

> our official [OpenTelemetry Demo](/docs) to **see** how observability with

Reviewer 2: Should this be here? https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo

Author: YEs, or we should have a /demo page somewhere at the website?

Reviewer 2: A deployed demo would be pretty cool. Will ask in slack

OpenTelemetry looks like.

If none of the roles below is applicable to you, [let us know](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/new?title=Add%20a%20new%20persona:%20My%20Persona&body=Provide%20a%20description%20of%20your%20role%20and%20responsibilities%20and%20what%20your%20observability%20goals%20are)

## Operations

> I operate a set of applications in production.
>
> My goal is to get telemetry out of them without touching their code.
>

> > I want to collect logs, metrics and traces from hundreds of services and.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> I want to collect traces, metrics, and logs from several services and
```
Suggest ordering by maturity of signal and just saying "several" services, since OTel is relevant for any number of services

> send them off to my observability backend easily

OpenTelemetry can help you with that! To get you started, learn ...

* ... [what OpenTelemetry is][].
* ... [how you can instrument applications without touching their code][]
* ... [how you can setup a collector][]
* ... [how you can get automation for Kubernetes with the OpenTelemetry Operator & helm charts.](/docs)
* ... [how you can get automation for your existing tooling (Chef, Ansible, ...)](/docs)

## Application Developer

> > I write the code of an application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> I write code for my organization's apps and services.
```

>
> My goal is to get observability for my application by writing code.
>

> > I want to have my dependencies emiting telemetry for me automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> I want to have my dependencies emit telemetry for me automatically,
> and then use APIs to manually instrument important areas of my code.
```
Let's lean into manual instrumentation a bit here. Developers don't shy away from using APIs in their code.
